# Intent Classification and Slot Filling as Question Answering: A Few-shot Learning Approach based on Training T5 Models on Instructional Text

## Abstract
Intent Classification and Slot Filling are applied to achieve a downstream task, such as an actuation or a query. The long hold issue is that the type of downstream tasks always changes depending on the application. Hence, to perform each time Intent Classification and Slot Filling new labelled data for training are needed. To deal with the data scarcity, we looked into casting the above as a Question Answering problem addressed by fine-tuning Text-To-Text Transfer Transformer (T5) models. We applied our algorithms to instructional text; in particular, for cooking recipes regarding baking. Firstly, we utilised an existing dataset containing clusters of baking-related sentences, to train a sentence embedding T5 (ST5) model. For each of the intent classification and slot-filling tasks, we fine-tuned a T5 model for question answering while investigating different configurations: (a) using large, readily available encyclopedic QA datasets vs our own small baking-specific labelled dataset; and (b) with and without incorporating the aforementioned ST5 model that we trained. Furthermore, in the intent classification task, we compared two different QA formats: Boolean ('yes' or 'no' answer) and extractive (part of the text). Similarly, in the slot filling task, two QA formats were compared: extractive and generative (where the slot value is generated in a normalised form, e.g., ''325 degrees Fahrenheit'' instead of ''325f''). Overall, our results show that the incorporation of our trained ST5 showed potential when incorporated with the small baking-specific datasets for Intent Classification. And surprisingly, the generative approach for Slot Filling showed improved performance over the extractive one.


## Run experiments
Follow the scripts for installation and then run each script for the two datasets.
The data can be downloaded [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zKtyKBq77mH6_un_i1AtyHpxCWKg7iMA/view?usp=sharing).
